README.md, before:

# Redraw
## Table of Contents
<!-- - [Product Guide] -->
- [Introduction](#introduction)
	- [Design Document](#design-document)
	- [The Team](#the-team)
- [Product Guide](#product-guide)
	- [Searching for Rooms](#searching-for-rooms)
	- [GUI Navigation](#gui-navigation)
- [Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
	- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
		- [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
		- [Run ReactJS Local](#run-reactjs-local)
		- [Run Django Local](#run-django-local)
		- [Production Build](#production-build)
	- [Back-End Systems](#back-end-systems)
		- [Database](#database)
			- [Schema](#schema)
			- [Running Locally](#running-locally)
			- [Managing With Django](#managing-with-django)
		- [Server](#server)
	- [Data Pre-Processing](#data-pre-preprocessing)
		- [Rooms Data](#rooms-data)
		- [Floorplans](#floorplans)
			- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
	- [Front-End Systems](#front-end-systems)
- [Project Report] 
	- [Reflections]
		- [Milestones]
		- [Design Decisions]
			- [UI Design]
			- [Back-End Design]



# Introduction

## Design Document
Our design document can be found [Here](https://tigerredraw.azurewebsites.net/).

## The Team
- Tigar Cyr, '20, Project Lead, Backend Developer
- Daniel Chae '20, Fullstack Developer
- Kesin Ryan Dehejia '20, Frontend Developer
- Chris Chu '19, Frontend Developer
		
# Product Guide
[Redraw](https://predraw.herokuapp.com) is a website built for Princeton 
undergraduate students and is equipped with an intuitive, fast, and 
powerful way of planning for Room Draw. The system allows students to 
find specific dorm rooms that would be the best fit for their campus 
life the following year. Using Redraw, students can connect to other 
students who are in their draw group to favorite potential rooms together.

A highly interactive GUI enhances the experience while providing detailed 
information about each of the rooms in every dorm building. The data 
available to the student body from the Housing Department’s website is 
conveniently formatted and conveyed to the users.

## Searching for Rooms

## GUI Navigation

# Developer Guide
## Getting Started
### Environment Setup
Install [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) for Python 3.x. Install pipenv from Brew
```sh
brew install pipenv
```
Download the dependencies from Pipfile
```sh
pipenv install
```
For developing, make sure you have a copy of node_modules. Install npm
```sh
npm install
```

### Run ReactJS Local
Run on the terminal (opens up [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/))
```sh
npm start
```

### Run Django Local
Run on the terminal
```sh
./manage.py runserver
```
Open up [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/)

### Production Build
To get a production build after making changes to the front-end,
```sh
npm run build
```
This updates the 'build/' directory in the project 'root'.

## Other Notes
This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app). There is a ReactJS frontend running with a Django backend, deployed through Heroku

## Back-End Systems
The back-end uses the Django framework hosted on Heroku with a Postgres database.  This section will help you interact with the database and web serving components of the system.

![hi there](/backend.png)
### Database

Redraw uses a Heroku Postgres database, managed through the Django ORM.  This section will help you set up the database to run on a local machine and manage it with Django commands. 
#### Schema

![The database was here a second ago...](/schema.png "Redraw DB Schema")
The database schema is managed and documented through a Lucidchart diagram.


The links between each box in the diagram represent the relationships between the tables.  The crow's feet represent "many" and the single line represents "one".  For example, the relationship between User id's and Profile user_id's is "one-to-one" while the relationship between Floors and Buildings is "many-to-one".

The regions in blue are automatically generated by Django and shouldn't be messed with.  The regions in red exist in the database schema, but are untested, because they are not used in version 1.0.

To edit the database schema access the [Lucidchart](https://www.lucidchart.com/invitations/accept/38c0aa0f-5aba-49e7-be63-e3dc314b4d9d) directly.

#### Running Locally
See Heroku's page for [postgres installation instructions](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-postgresql#local-setup).

**Troubleshooting:**

Occasionally postgres will have trouble connecting to Django and pgAdmin when it's first installed.  If this happens (Django will give you some error about not finding the database server or a port already in use), then try restarting postgres or uninstall/reinstall-ing it.

**Important:**

Django knows how to log into the database based on settings in settings.py:

	DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2',
        'NAME': 'postgres',
        'HOST': 'localhost',
        'USER': 'postgres',
        'PASSWORD': 'Redraw255',
        'PORT': '5432',
        'CONN_MAX_AGE': 600,
    	}
	}

These are the setting Django uses to run the database while testing locally.  On the Heroku Server, it has more secure authentication.  We have it set up to log into the account "postgres" on your machine with the password "Redraw255", so when postgres asks you to setup your account (it should during installation) make sure to use these credentials.

The big benefit of this postgres distribution is that it comes with pgAdmin 4, which is super nice for looking at the database directly.  It has a lot of features, but we're only using a few, so let's walk through all you need to know to get started:

When you open up pgAdmin, you'll see a screen like this:
![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_open.PNG)

Expand out the "Servers" dropdown on the left, and double-click on "PostgreSQL 10" (there should be a red x indicating you're not yet connected).  pgAdmin will then prompt you to log in.  Type in "Redraw255", and you should be fine.  Now you can expand out the tree structure until you can see the tables themselves:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_expanded.PNG)

Click on one of the table to select it.  Then go to the tools menu and open up the query tool:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_menu.PNG)

Once you open it up, it should look like this:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_query_tool.PNG)

Now you can start typing in SQL queries.  Just make sure you end them with a semicolon and use the lightining bolt button to execute them.  Here's an example:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_query.PNG)

#### Managing With Django

Django has lots of built in tools and abstractions that make database management fairly simple and intuitive for a python developer.  For more info, see the [django docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/).  We keep our [models](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/topics/db/models/) in RedrawApp/models.py.

To set up the database schema, first run 

    python manage.py makemigrations 

This will have django compare your local database to what you describe in models.py and generate a patch or "migration" to update your database's structure.  Then run

    python manage.py migrate 

to apply this migration.

To populate the database, run 

    python manage.py load_data

This is a custom command written for Redraw that resets and reloads Room, Floor, Builiding, and Draw data.  Note: it does not reset Django's auto-increment counters.

### Django Server

Redraw follows standard Django procedure.  Requests go through urls.py and either redirect to CAS, send a template back, or trigger an API call from api.py.

## Data Pre-Processing
### Prerequisites
The data preprocessing systems are meant to be run only when loading and updating otherwise static data and is thus never meant to be run by a production server.  I will repeat, *this is not server code*, and is meant to be run independently from the server in a different environment.  As such it has a different set of dependencies:
*	Unix tools
*	Python 2.7
	*	Numpy
	*	OpenCV
	*	pytesseract
	*	PIL
*	Tesseract OCR

On Mac or Linux, you already have Unix tools.  On Windows, we suggest WSL to get a full Linux distribution.

While the server code is written in Python 3.6, the data pre-processing is written in Python 2.7 for compatibility with external libraries.  We recommend having Python 3 as your main Python and using a Python virtual environment (e.g. with [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/), [conda](https://conda.io/docs/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html), or [pipenv](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/)) to run the Python 2 code.

[Numpy](https://scipy.org/install.html) is a standard scientific library for python and a dependency for OpenCV.  It comes built-in with some python distributions, but if you are using vanilla python, you can install it via pip:

	python -m pip install --user numpy

We use [OpenCV](https://www.opencv.org/) (3.2.0) for much of the image processing.  It can either be built from source for C++ and/or CUDA support or simply installed with pip:

	pip install opencv-python==3.2.0

Finally, we use Tesseract OCR for text recognition.  The system is tested with Tesseract 3.05, installed with the Windows installer available at [Tesseract at UB Mannheim](https://github.com/UB-Mannheim/tesseract/wiki).  If you are on a different platform or want to try out a newer version, see the [Tesseract Wiki](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki).

To use Tesseract with Python, install the [pytesseract](https://github.com/madmaze/pytesseract) binding and its dependency, [PIL](http://pythonware.com/products/pil/):

	pip install Pillow
	pip install pytesseract
	
### Rooms Data
Redraw has a pipeline for cleaning and collating "How Rooms Drew" (HRD) data from past years and the current year's available rooms list.  This starts from plain text files and uses a mix of Unix tools and Python to merge data from HRD files and the polygons directory into AVAIL18.json.

There is a fair amount of branching and merging going on here, and it gets fairly complex.  For cleanliness and ease of use, we have consolidated all the necessary code into a single script called preprocess.sh, so to update data to be loaded into the database, simply run

    bash preprocess.sh

from within the data directory.  See preprocess.sh for more details.

A normal workflow is to add/update data, preprocess all data, and load into a database:

	# find some more polygons or years of data
	cd Redraw/data
	bash preprocess.sh
	cd ..
	python3 manage.py load_data

### Floorplans

The floorplans analysis and image processing scripts, located in the scripts directory, are used to clean, read, and beautify the floorplans.  Each of these use glob to support batch jobs, so they accept regular expressions for groups of file names.

To run the floorplans analysis, run

	python scripts/findrooms.py <image filename(s)> [options]

The supported options are:

	*	-p (preprocessed): use a preprocessed image that has already been thresholded, trimmed, and inverted
	*	-v (verbose): output extra debugging outputs at the cost of speed
	*	-time: time the program

To preprocess images themselves:

	python scripts/prep.py <image filename(s)> [-trim]

The trim option tells the preprocessor to crop the image down to shrinkwrap it around any marks left by the preprocessor.

To add padding back to images and restore them to the standard size for floorplans for reading (10200X6600) run:

	python scripts/resize.py <image filename(s)>

Finally, to color images, run:

	python scripts/color.py <image filename(s)>

# Project Report

## Reflections

### Milestones

### Design Decisions

#### UI Design

#### Back-End Design

The back end design was straightforward, almost cookie-cutter, once we decided to use Django.  The one exception to that was the database schema: because of the row limit (10,000) on Heroku's free tier, to ensure we stayed under even with every user in the database, we resorted to an unorthodox method for handling many-to-many relationships.  Rather than using an intermediate table as best practices suggest, we stored arrays within records to map elements of different tables to each other.  This ensures we stay under our row-limit, but is something we would change in an instant in the event we get funding to move up to a paid plan.

## Front-End Systems

Commit message:

Made some changes to README.md

README.md, after:

# Redraw
## Table of Contents
<!-- - [Product Guide] -->
- [Introduction](#introduction)
	- [Design Document](#design-document)
	- [The Team](#the-team)
- [Product Guide](#product-guide)
	- [Searching for Rooms](#searching-for-rooms)
	- [GUI Navigation](#gui-navigation)
- [Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
	- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
		- [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
		- [Run ReactJS Local](#run-reactjs-local)
		- [Run Django Local](#run-django-local)
		- [Production Build](#production-build)
	- [Back-End Systems](#back-end-systems)
		- [Database](#database)
			- [Schema](#schema)
			- [Running Locally](#running-locally)
			- [Managing With Django](#managing-with-django)
		- [Server](#server)
	- [Data Pre-Processing](#data-pre-preprocessing)
		- [Rooms Data](#rooms-data)
		- [Floorplans](#floorplans)
			- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
	- [Front-End Systems](#front-end-systems)
	- [Maintenance](#maintenance)


# Introduction

## Design Document
Our design document can be found [Here](https://tigerredraw.azurewebsites.net/) (https://tigerredraw.azurewebsites.net/).

## The Team
- Tigar Cyr, '20, Project Lead, Backend Developer
- Daniel Chae '20, Fullstack Developer
- Kesin Ryan Dehejia '20, Frontend Developer
- Chris Chu '19, Frontend Developer
		
# Product Guide
[Redraw](https://predraw.herokuapp.com) (https://predraw.herokuapp.com/) is a website built for Princeton 
undergraduate students and is equipped with an intuitive, fast, and 
powerful way of planning for Room Draw. The system allows students to 
find specific dorm rooms that would be the best fit for their campus 
life the following year. Using Redraw, students can connect to other 
students who are in their draw group to favorite potential rooms together.

A highly interactive GUI enhances the experience while providing detailed 
information about each of the rooms in every dorm building. The data 
available to the student body from the Housing Department’s website is 
conveniently formatted and conveyed to the users.

There are two ways of using the application. First, narrow down the rooms by searching on the top search bar.
Upon using this search bar, search results will be displayed on the left, below the expandable favorites bar.
The second way of navigating is simply clicking. Clicking a building by default leads to the ground floor floor plan.
All floor plans are interactive and rooms can be clicked to display information on the bottom right. If the user wishes to
add the room to the favorites list, then simply click the heart button. The user can switch to different floors by clicking the floor buttons (if they exist).

## Searching for Rooms

## GUI Navigation

# Developer Guide
## Getting Started
### Environment Setup
Install [Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) for Python 3.x. Install pipenv from Brew
```sh
brew install pipenv
```
Download the dependencies from Pipfile
```sh
pipenv install
```
For developing, make sure you have a copy of node_modules. Install npm
```sh
npm install
```

### Run ReactJS Local
Run on the terminal (opens up [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/))
```sh
npm start
```

### Run Django Local
Run on the terminal (this command is for Python 3.x, make sure to run Python 3.x, which is compatible with Django 2.0)
```sh
./manage.py runserver
```
Open up [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/)

### Production Build
To get a production build after making changes to the front-end,
```sh
npm run build
```
This updates the 'build/' directory in the project 'root'.

## Other Notes
This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app). There is a ReactJS frontend running with a Django backend, deployed through Heroku

## Back-End Systems
The back-end uses the Django framework hosted on Heroku with a Postgres database.  This section will help you interact with the database and web serving components of the system.

![hi there](/backend.png)
### Database

Redraw uses a Heroku Postgres database, managed through the Django ORM.  This section will help you set up the database to run on a local machine and manage it with Django commands. 
#### Schema

![The database was here a second ago...](/schema.png "Redraw DB Schema")
The database schema is managed and documented through a Lucidchart diagram.


The links between each box in the diagram represent the relationships between the tables.  The crow's feet represent "many" and the single line represents "one".  For example, the relationship between User id's and Profile user_id's is "one-to-one" while the relationship between Floors and Buildings is "many-to-one".

The regions in blue are automatically generated by Django and shouldn't be messed with.  The regions in red exist in the database schema, but are untested, because they are not used in version 1.0.

To edit the database schema access the [Lucidchart](https://www.lucidchart.com/invitations/accept/38c0aa0f-5aba-49e7-be63-e3dc314b4d9d) directly.

#### Running Locally
See Heroku's page for [postgres installation instructions](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-postgresql#local-setup).

**Troubleshooting:**

Occasionally postgres will have trouble connecting to Django and pgAdmin when it's first installed.  If this happens (Django will give you some error about not finding the database server or a port already in use), then try restarting postgres or uninstall/reinstall-ing it.

**Important:**

Django knows how to log into the database based on settings in settings.py:

	DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2',
        'NAME': 'postgres',
        'HOST': 'localhost',
        'USER': 'postgres',
        'PASSWORD': 'Redraw255',
        'PORT': '5432',
        'CONN_MAX_AGE': 600,
    	}
	}

These are the setting Django uses to run the database while testing locally.  On the Heroku Server, it has more secure authentication.  We have it set up to log into the account "postgres" on your machine with the password "Redraw255", so when postgres asks you to setup your account (it should during installation) make sure to use these credentials.

The big benefit of this postgres distribution is that it comes with pgAdmin 4, which is super nice for looking at the database directly.  It has a lot of features, but we're only using a few, so let's walk through all you need to know to get started:

When you open up pgAdmin, you'll see a screen like this:
![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_open.PNG)

Expand out the "Servers" dropdown on the left, and double-click on "PostgreSQL 10" (there should be a red x indicating you're not yet connected).  pgAdmin will then prompt you to log in.  Type in "Redraw255", and you should be fine.  Now you can expand out the tree structure until you can see the tables themselves:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_expanded.PNG)

Click on one of the table to select it.  Then go to the tools menu and open up the query tool:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_menu.PNG)

Once you open it up, it should look like this:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_query_tool.PNG)

Now you can start typing in SQL queries.  Just make sure you end them with a semicolon and use the lightining bolt button to execute them.  Here's an example:

![It was here a second ago...](/pgAdmin_query.PNG)

#### Managing With Django

Django has lots of built in tools and abstractions that make database management fairly simple and intuitive for a python developer.  For more info, see the [django docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/).  We keep our [models](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.0/topics/db/models/) in RedrawApp/models.py.

To set up the database schema, first run 

    python manage.py makemigrations 

This will have django compare your local database to what you describe in models.py and generate a patch or "migration" to update your database's structure.  Then run

    python manage.py migrate 

to apply this migration.

To populate the database, run 

    python manage.py load_data

This is a custom command written for Redraw that resets and reloads Room, Floor, Builiding, and Draw data.  Note: it does not reset Django's auto-increment counters.

### Django Server

Redraw follows standard Django procedure.  Requests go through urls.py and either redirect to CAS, send a template back, or trigger an API call from api.py.

## Data Pre-Processing
### Prerequisites
The data preprocessing systems are meant to be run only when loading and updating otherwise static data and is thus never meant to be run by a production server.  I will repeat, *this is not server code*, and is meant to be run independently from the server in a different environment.  As such it has a different set of dependencies:
*	Unix tools
*	Python 2.7
	*	Numpy
	*	OpenCV
	*	pytesseract
	*	PIL
*	Tesseract OCR

On Mac or Linux, you already have Unix tools.  On Windows, we suggest WSL to get a full Linux distribution.

While the server code is written in Python 3.6, the data pre-processing is written in Python 2.7 for compatibility with external libraries.  We recommend having Python 3 as your main Python and using a Python virtual environment (e.g. with [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/), [conda](https://conda.io/docs/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html), or [pipenv](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/)) to run the Python 2 code.

[Numpy](https://scipy.org/install.html) is a standard scientific library for python and a dependency for OpenCV.  It comes built-in with some python distributions, but if you are using vanilla python, you can install it via pip:

	python -m pip install --user numpy

We use [OpenCV](https://www.opencv.org/) (3.2.0) for much of the image processing.  It can either be built from source for C++ and/or CUDA support or simply installed with pip:

	pip install opencv-python==3.2.0

Finally, we use Tesseract OCR for text recognition.  The system is tested with Tesseract 3.05, installed with the Windows installer available at [Tesseract at UB Mannheim](https://github.com/UB-Mannheim/tesseract/wiki).  If you are on a different platform or want to try out a newer version, see the [Tesseract Wiki](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki).

To use Tesseract with Python, install the [pytesseract](https://github.com/madmaze/pytesseract) binding and its dependency, [PIL](http://pythonware.com/products/pil/):

	pip install Pillow
	pip install pytesseract
	
### Rooms Data
Redraw has a pipeline for cleaning and collating "How Rooms Drew" (HRD) data from past years and the current year's available rooms list.  This starts from plain text files and uses a mix of Unix tools and Python to merge data from HRD files and the polygons directory into AVAIL18.json.

There is a fair amount of branching and merging going on here, and it gets fairly complex.  For cleanliness and ease of use, we have consolidated all the necessary code into a single script called preprocess.sh, so to update data to be loaded into the database, simply run

    bash preprocess.sh

from within the data directory.  See preprocess.sh for more details.

A normal workflow is to add/update data, preprocess all data, and load into a database:

	# find some more polygons or years of data
	cd Redraw/data
	bash preprocess.sh
	cd ..
	python3 manage.py load_data

### Floorplans

The floorplans analysis and image processing scripts, located in the scripts directory, are used to clean, read, and beautify the floorplans.  Each of these use glob to support batch jobs, so they accept regular expressions for groups of file names.

To run the floorplans analysis, run

	python scripts/findrooms.py <image filename(s)> [options]

The supported options are:

	*	-p (preprocessed): use a preprocessed image that has already been thresholded, trimmed, and inverted
	*	-v (verbose): output extra debugging outputs at the cost of speed
	*	-time: time the program

To preprocess images themselves:

	python scripts/prep.py <image filename(s)> [-trim]

The trim option tells the preprocessor to crop the image down to shrinkwrap it around any marks left by the preprocessor.

To add padding back to images and restore them to the standard size for floorplans for reading (10200X6600) run:

	python scripts/resize.py <image filename(s)>

Finally, to color images, run:

	python scripts/color.py <image filename(s)>

## Front-End Systems

To make any changes to what the frontend looks like, simply change the src/App.js file. To make any style changes, apply changes to src/styling/App.css. The App.js file is a single-page application that handles all the rendering of the React components. It has been written and maintained in a single page in order to have all components under one location.

## Maintenance

Maintenance of the site will be handled by the creators until graduation. Upon our graduation, then we anticipate passing the repository to a student interested in maintaining the site. Another possible route could be to pass this project on as a TigerApps app, which was the original intent of the creators of the repository.
